Create UI-terminology.md (#208)
siemens/ix-docs: docs/guidelines/language/menu-functions-and-ui-labels/External-links-and-resources.md

#

## General rules for external links

Use brief, meaningful link text to explain the function of the target web page or resource.

<div className="dos-and-donts" markdown>
<div className="dos" markdown>
- SIMATIC S7-1500 firmware updates <IxIcon name={iconOpenExternal} size="16" aria-label="external" role="img"></IxIcon>
- Roles and permissions in the documentation <IxIcon name={iconOpenExternal} size="16" aria-label="external" role="img"></IxIcon>
- Demonstration projects <IxIcon name={iconApplicationScreen} size="16" aria-label="external application" role="img"></IxIcon>
</div>
<div className="donts" markdown>
- Learn about the latest device firmware updates
- {'https://www.company.com/s7-1500-firmware'}
- Remote access
</div>
</div>

Pair link text with universal icons, e.g. the open-external or application-screen icons.

<div className="dos-and-donts" markdown>
<div className="dos" markdown>
- Company Digital ID <IxIcon name={iconOpenExternal} size="16" aria-label="external" role="img"></IxIcon>
- Manage your software licenses in one place <IxIcon name={iconApplicationScreen} size="16" aria-label="external application" role="img"></IxIcon>
</div>
</div>

> Use descriptive link text instead of long, full URLs and remove the prefix {'https://www.'}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use descriptive link text instead of long, full URLs and remove the prefix `https://www.`.
```
Would it make sense to wrap the prefix part in a pre-tag? Otherwise, the 2 dots look weird. Not sure what was the intention of using curly brackets - they've been simply striped, as you can see on the screenshot below

<img width="146" height="51" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2912bd54-1330-4366-853a-843b9b8406ca" />

Author: I added the curly brackets that the links won't be underlined and won't look like a link. We want plain only.

</div>
<div className="donts" markdown>
- For more technical details, visit Automation Whitepaper <IxIcon name={iconOpenExternal} size="16" aria-label="external" role="img"></IxIcon>.
</div>
</div>

## Emails and telephone numbers

Avoid adding the "mailto" text and for email addresses as this is no longer visible in the UI.

<div className="dos-and-donts" markdown>
<div className="donts" markdown>
- {'mailto:name@examples.com'}
</div>
</div>

Ensure email addresses and phone numbers are clickable.

<div className="dos-and-donts" markdown>
<div className="dos" markdown>
- You can reach us at the following telephone number [+1 555-0100](#).
</div>
<div className="donts" markdown>
- 555 0100
</div>
</div>

## Dos and Don'ts

- Do add link text for transparency
- Do pair link and resource icons with clear texts
- Do use icons to visualize what will open, e.g. external link, PDF, etc.
- Do use ALT-text to explain icons
- Don't include https://, http: or www in URL text
- Don't add links in headings or sub-headings

## Related

- [Link button (component)](/docs/components/link-button/guide)
- [Icon library](/docs/icons/icon-library.mdx)

> - [Numbers and percentages](/docs/guidelines/language/formatting/numbers)

Reviewer: how is numbers and percentages connected to links?

Author: We had a phone number. What we took the link out. There are a many links already.
